# Argus
A vision-based pose estimator for the in-hand manipulation hardware setup in the AMBER Lab.

## Installation

1. Clone this repository and `cd` into the repo root.
2. Manage the `cudatoolkit` version and `python` dependencies using `conda` by running the following
```
conda env create --name <your_env_name> --file=environment.yml

# pick the install command that is most relevant to you!
pip install -e .  # if you don't need unity or dev dependencies
pip install -e .[unity]  # installs ml-agents, forces numpy and scipy to be old
pip install -e .[dev]  # use [dev] for dev tooling and testing + unity - else, don't need it
```
3. If you installed the dev dependencies, activate the pre-commit checks with
    ```
    pre-commit install
    ```
    Now, when you commit files, the checks will be run first.

4. We use `wandb` to log the training process. To use it, you need to set up an account and run
    ```
    wandb login
    ```
    When prompted, enter your API key.

## Usage

Below are quickstart instructions. Most of the configs are managed via `tyro`, so you can easily check what other configurable fields are exposed using the `-h` option for those commands if you want something different.

### Data Generation

The data generation pipeline has 2 steps.

1. Simulated `mjpc` data is generated by code in the `cube_rotation` repository. This data is then saved out into a `json` file. Suppose its path is `/path/to/mjpc/data.json`
2. The `data_generation.py` script reads in this data and renders images of the scene to generate a new dataset used to train the estimator. It also needs a Unity executable built from the environment with the LEAP hand in it.

This second step requires Unity to be installed. Here are concrete steps.

* Install some version of Unity from 2023 and open a project from the `LeapProject` directory.
* The scene that pops up should have the LEAP hand and a cube in it. Build out an executable by navigating to `File > Build Settings > Build`. Suppose you save it to `/path/to/unity/exe.extension`.

Once you have these two directories, you can run the data generation pipeline with default settings by running the followin command from the repo root:
```
python argus/data_generation.py --env-exe-path /path/to/unity/exe.extension --mjpc-data-path /path/to/mjpc/data.json
```
This will save out an `hdf5` file used to train the estimator to the directory `/REPO_ROOT/outputs/data/cube_unity_data.hdf5`.

### Training and Validation

To train the estimator with default settings run (for your choice of small, medium, or large dataset)
```
python argus/train.py --dataset-config.dataset-path outputs/data/cube_unity_data_<small,medium,large>
```
This will train an estimator and save out a model to `/REPO_ROOT/outputs/models/<wandb_id>.pth`. Multi-GPU training is also implemented via `torch.DistributedDataParallel`. To use this, simply run
```
python argus/train.py --dataset-config.dataset-path outputs/data/cube_unity_data_<small,medium,large> --multigpu
```

To run some visual evaluations as sanity checks, run
```
python argus/validate.py --model-path /home/albert/research/argus/outputs/models/<checkpoint>.pth
```
This will save out images showing qualitative performance on the validation set to the directory `/REPO_ROOT/outputs/validation_visuals/<checkpoint>`.

To run visual evaluations on real-world data, run
```
python argus/validate_real.py --model-path /home/albert/research/argus/outputs/models/<checkpoint>.pth --dataset-config.dataset-path outputs/data/cube_unity_data_<small,medium,large>
```

## Testing

To run tests, run `pytest` in the repo root.
